clang-tools-extra/docs/clang-tidy/checks/bugprone-misplaced-operator-in-strlen-in-alloc.rst, before:

.. title:: clang-tidy - bugprone-misplaced-operator-in-strlen-in-alloc

bugprone-misplaced-operator-in-strlen-in-alloc
==============================================

Finds cases where ``1`` is added to the string in the argument to ``strlen()``,
``strnlen()``, ``strnlen_s()``, ``wcslen()``, ``wcsnlen()``, and ``wcsnlen_s()``
instead of the result and the value is used as an argument to a memory
allocation function (``malloc()``, ``calloc()``, ``realloc()``, ``alloca()``).
Cases where ``1`` is added both to the parameter and the result of the
``strlen()``-like function are ignored, as are cases where the whole addition is
surrounded by extra parentheses.

Example code:

.. code-block:: c

    void bad_malloc(char *str) {
      char *c = (char*) malloc(strlen(str + 1));
    }


The suggested fix is to add ``1`` to the return value of ``strlen()`` and not
to its argument. In the example above the fix would be

.. code-block:: c

      char *c = (char*) malloc(strlen(str) + 1);


Example for silencing the diagnostic:

.. code-block:: c

    void bad_malloc(char *str) {
      char *c = (char*) malloc(strlen((str + 1)));
    }

Commit message:

[clang-tidy] Add support for operator new[] in check bugprone-misplaced-operator-in-strlen-in-alloc
The check now recognizes error cases like `new char[strlen(s + 1)]` and suggests
a fix in the format `new char[strlen(s) + 1]`.

llvm-svn: 318912

clang-tools-extra/docs/clang-tidy/checks/bugprone-misplaced-operator-in-strlen-in-alloc.rst, after:

.. title:: clang-tidy - bugprone-misplaced-operator-in-strlen-in-alloc

bugprone-misplaced-operator-in-strlen-in-alloc
==============================================

Finds cases where ``1`` is added to the string in the argument to ``strlen()``,
``strnlen()``, ``strnlen_s()``, ``wcslen()``, ``wcsnlen()``, and ``wcsnlen_s()``
instead of the result and the value is used as an argument to a memory
allocation function (``malloc()``, ``calloc()``, ``realloc()``, ``alloca()``) or
the ``new[]`` operator in `C++`. Cases where ``1`` is added both to the
parameter and the result of the ``strlen()``-like function are ignored, as are
cases where the whole addition is surrounded by extra parentheses.

`C` example code:

.. code-block:: c

    void bad_malloc(char *str) {
      char *c = (char*) malloc(strlen(str + 1));
    }


The suggested fix is to add ``1`` to the return value of ``strlen()`` and not
to its argument. In the example above the fix would be

.. code-block:: c

      char *c = (char*) malloc(strlen(str) + 1);


`C++` example code:

.. code-block:: c++

    void bad_new(char *str) {
      char *c = new char[strlen(str + 1)];
    }


As in the `C` code with the ``malloc()`` function, the suggested fix is to
add ``1`` to the return value of ``strlen()`` and not to its argument. In the
example above the fix would be

.. code-block:: c++

      char *c = new char[strlen(str) + 1];


Example for silencing the diagnostic:

.. code-block:: c

    void bad_malloc(char *str) {
      char *c = (char*) malloc(strlen((str + 1)));
    }
