clang-tools-extra/docs/clang-tidy/checks/objc-property-declaration.rst, before:

.. title:: clang-tidy - objc-property-declaration

objc-property-declaration
=========================

Finds property declarations in Objective-C files that do not follow the pattern
of property names in Apple's programming guide. The property name should be
in the format of Lower Camel Case.

For code:

.. code-block:: objc

@property(nonatomic, assign) int LowerCamelCase;

The fix will be:

.. code-block:: objc

@property(nonatomic, assign) int lowerCamelCase;

The check will only fix 'CamelCase' to 'camelCase'. In some other cases we will
only provide warning messages since the property name could be complicated.
Users will need to come up with a proper name by their own.

This check also accepts special acronyms as prefixes or suffixes. Such prefixes or suffixes
will suppress the Lower Camel Case check according to the guide:
https://developer.apple.com/library/content/documentation/Cocoa/Conceptual/CodingGuidelines/Articles/NamingBasics.html#//apple_ref/doc/uid/20001281-1002931-BBCFHEAB

For a full list of well-known acronyms:
https://developer.apple.com/library/content/documentation/Cocoa/Conceptual/CodingGuidelines/Articles/APIAbbreviations.html#//apple_ref/doc/uid/20001285-BCIHCGAE

The corresponding style rule: https://developer.apple.com/library/content/documentation/Cocoa/Conceptual/CodingGuidelines/Articles/NamingIvarsAndTypes.html#//apple_ref/doc/uid/20001284-1001757

Options
-------

.. option:: Acronyms

   Semicolon-separated list of acronyms that can be used as a prefix
   or a suffix of property names.

   If unset, defaults to "ACL;API;ARGB;ASCII;BGRA;CMYK;DNS;FPS;FTP;GIF;GPS;HD;HDR;HTML;HTTP;HTTPS;HUD;ID;JPG;JS;LAN;LZW;MDNS;MIDI;OS;PDF;PIN;PNG;POI;PSTN;PTR;QA;QOS;RGB;RGBA;RGBX;ROM;RPC;RTF;RTL;SDK;SSO;TCP;TIFF;TTS;UI;URI;URL;VC;VOIP;VPN;VR;WAN;XML".

Commit message:

[clang-tidy objc-property-declaration] New option IncludeDefaultAcronyms
Summary:
The existing option objc-property-declaration.Acronyms
replaces the built-in set of acronyms.

While this behavior is OK for clients that don't want the default
behavior, many clients may just want to add their own custom acronyms
to the default list.

This revision introduces a new option,
objc-property-declaration.IncludeDefaultAcronyms, which controls
whether the acronyms in objc-property-declaration.Acronyms are
appended to the default list (the default behavior) or whether they
replace.

I also updated the documentation.

Test Plan: make -j12 check-clang-tools

Reviewers: Wizard, hokein, klimek

Reviewed By: hokein

Subscribers: Eugene.Zelenko, cfe-commits

Differential Revision: https://reviews.llvm.org/D42261

llvm-svn: 323130

clang-tools-extra/docs/clang-tidy/checks/objc-property-declaration.rst, after:

.. title:: clang-tidy - objc-property-declaration

objc-property-declaration
=========================

Finds property declarations in Objective-C files that do not follow the pattern
of property names in Apple's programming guide. The property name should be
in the format of Lower Camel Case.

For code:

.. code-block:: objc

@property(nonatomic, assign) int LowerCamelCase;

The fix will be:

.. code-block:: objc

@property(nonatomic, assign) int lowerCamelCase;

The check will only fix 'CamelCase' to 'camelCase'. In some other cases we will
only provide warning messages since the property name could be complicated.
Users will need to come up with a proper name by their own.

This check also accepts special acronyms as prefixes or suffixes. Such prefixes or suffixes
will suppress the Lower Camel Case check according to the guide:
https://developer.apple.com/library/content/documentation/Cocoa/Conceptual/CodingGuidelines/Articles/NamingBasics.html#//apple_ref/doc/uid/20001281-1002931-BBCFHEAB

For a full list of well-known acronyms:
https://developer.apple.com/library/content/documentation/Cocoa/Conceptual/CodingGuidelines/Articles/APIAbbreviations.html#//apple_ref/doc/uid/20001285-BCIHCGAE

The corresponding style rule: https://developer.apple.com/library/content/documentation/Cocoa/Conceptual/CodingGuidelines/Articles/NamingIvarsAndTypes.html#//apple_ref/doc/uid/20001284-1001757

Options
-------

.. option:: Acronyms

   Semicolon-separated list of custom acronyms that can be used as a prefix
   or a suffix of property names.

   By default, appends to the list of default acronyms (
   ``IncludeDefaultAcronyms`` set to ``1``).
   If ``IncludeDefaultAcronyms`` is set to ``0``, instead replaces the
   default list of acronyms.

.. option:: IncludeDefaultAcronyms

   Integer value (defaults to ``1``) to control whether the default
   acronyms are included in the list of acronyms.

   If set to ``1``, the value in ``Acronyms`` is appended to the
   default list of acronyms:

   ``ACL;API;ARGB;ASCII;BGRA;CMYK;DNS;FPS;FTP;GIF;GPS;HD;HDR;HTML;HTTP;HTTPS;
HUD;ID;JPG;JS;LAN;LZW;MDNS;MIDI;OS;PDF;PIN;PNG;POI;PSTN;PTR;QA;QOS;RGB;RGBA;
RGBX;ROM;RPC;RTF;RTL;SDK;SSO;TCP;TIFF;TTS;UI;URI;URL;VC;VOIP;VPN;VR;WAN;XML``.

   If set to ``0``, the value in ``Acronyms`` replaces the default list
   of acronyms.
